Title: #003: New paper about plasma resonances driven by the Galilean moons
Date: 2024-03-06
Summary: 
Tags: News
Slug: 003

Happy to announce that my collaborators and I have published a new
 [paper](https://doi.org/10.1029/2023GL107431) in 
Geophysical Research Letters discussing resonant plasma acceleration by the 
Galilean moons. Here is the plain language summary from the paper - 

> The passage of the Galilean moons- Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto, perturbs 
the plasma flow in Jupiter's magnetosphere, creating waves that travel from the 
moon and reflect off Jupiter's ionosphere. These waves have been proposed to 
accelerate charged particles, and such accelerated particles had been observed 
by the Juno spacecraft during its passage through magnetic field lines connected 
to the satellite wakes. In this work, we find instances when this acceleration 
occurs selectively at specific energies that have constant separation in speed. 
We propose that this selective acceleration is due to resonance between particle 
bounce motion and the waves arising from the satellite wake perturbation. 
Bounce-resonant acceleration is a promising fundamental process which can 
accelerate particles in Jupiter's inner magnetosphere and other plasma systems 
with similar geometries.

There is some jargon here, but the paper itself is quite simple. We measured
charged particles and found more of them at certain energies. It turned out that 
those energies with high counts were actually linearly separated in speed, which 
was very unexpected. Then we explored what could cause these patterns, assuming 
that it was some kind of resonance. But between what?

It is known that charged particles trapped in a dipole-like magnetic field 
*bounce* along the two ends of a field line. Another phenomena is the 'plucking'
of magnetic field lines to produce standing waves. We showed in the paper that 
the frequencies for these two different processes are very similar near the 
Galilean moons, so there may be resonances between them.

It is interesting that we see the linear separation and banded 
structure *only when* the Juno spacecraft is on the same field line as one 
crossing the moons' wakes. So, if observed banding results from resonance
between particle bounce and standing waves, then there *must* be such standing 
waves created by the moons.

<img src="{static}../images/blog3/FLR-moons.jpg" alt="Picture"/> 

Link to the paper -  
**Sarkango, Y.**, Szalay, J. R., Sulaiman, A. H., Damiano, P. A., McComas, D. J.,
 Rabia, J., et al. (2024). Resonant plasma acceleration at Jupiter driven by 
 satellite-magnetosphere interactions. Geophysical Research Letters, 51, 
 e2023GL107431. [https://doi.org/10.1029/2023GL107431](https://doi.org/10.1029/2023GL107431) 