content/pages/about.md, before:

Title: About Me
Category: About
Authors: Yash Sarkango
URL: 
save_as: index.html

Welcome to my personal website.  

I am a researcher studying space plasma physics and planetary
magnetospheres.  I earned a PhD in Space Science in 2021 from the University 
of Michigan and continued there as a postdoc until Jun 2022.  From Jul 2022 to 
Jan 2025, I was a postdoc in the Space Physics group at Princeton University.
  I am currently a researcher at the University of Minnesota within the School
of Physics and Astronomy.

I specialize in studies of Jupiter's magnetosphere.
While at Michigan, I used global magnetohydrodynamic simulations to study its 
dynamics. Towards the end of my PhD, I used magnetometer data to study magnetic 
reconnection.  At Princeton, my collaborators and I used data from the 
plasma and high-energy particle detectors to search for the Europa neutral 
torus.  We identified strange plasma distributions in the wakes of the Galilean 
moons.  We also found evidence of resonance between a planet's rotation and 
particles trapped by the planet's magnetic field.

If you'd like to reach me, please email at - 
`<my-last-name>@umn.edu` .

<br />
<img src="{static}../images/photo.JPG" alt="Picture" width="150"/>

[🐤]({filename}/pages/canaries.md)

Commit message:

Some changes and addition of research images

content/pages/about.md, after:

Title: About Me
Category: About
Authors: Yash Sarkango
URL: 
save_as: index.html

Welcome to my personal website.  I am an early-career space plasma physicist.  

Work Experience:

| Dates | Title | Institution | Topic | 
| --- | --- | --- | --- |   
| 06/2025-present | Research Professional | University of Minnesota Twin Cities | Plasma wave-particle interactions (in-progress*)
| 07/2022-01/2025 | Postdoc | Princeton University | Moon-plasma interactions \| plasma distributions and transport <br>Analysis of data from particle detectors
| 05/2021-06/2022 | Postdoc | University of Michigan Ann Arbor | PIC simulations \| magnetic reconnection
| 08/2016-04/2021 | PhD Student | University of Michigan Ann Arbor | Global MHD simulations of Jupiter's magnetosphere 

Email: `<my-last-name>@umn.edu` 

<br />
<img src="{static}../images/photo.JPG" alt="Picture" width="150"/>



[🐤]({filename}/pages/canaries.md)  

For images from research papers click [here]({filename}/pages/images-research.md).
